They say I learned seamanship from my father and he learned it from his father and so on back into antiquity.
Because you know when you have a family settled in one place all the little tales get passed down from father to son.
But coming back to sailing I've always messed about in boats. I became a sailing instructor.
I was sailing instructor for the local Sea Cadet Corps and at the same time I acquired a 1904 vintage itching ferry.
She was a wreck in a shipyard and I was talking to a lad and he said, oh I'm going to set fire to it.
I said don't do that, she's too pretty. Alright you have it. Ah.
So I restored it to sailing condition and oh she was really, she was a classic yacht you know.
The sort of thing you'd be sailing down the haven and a powerboat would come over and all of a sudden you'd find yourself looking down camera lenses
because people thought she was worth photographing. I thought wow they've noticed you know.
But it was fun but unfortunately father time caught up with me and I thought now hang on I need to be strong to sail this thing.
And I thought now I'm not as strong as I was and not as nimble as I was so I thought now it would be sensible to let her go.
She was great fun while I had her you know and she really was a powerful boat.
To give you an idea she was built in 1904 but she had a huge spread of sails. She had four sails on one mast.
There was an occasion when I was coming into Milford Haven and a couple of high powered modern yachts were with me and the wind was just right.
And we were tearing along and these modern yachts couldn't pass us.
We were just sort of sitting in the cockpit sort of looking at things and you could hear the crews, hey treat this a bit, push that a bit, move this.
We're not going any faster. Why can't we catch that whole thing?
But I thought that was terrific you know and I thought the old girls got it. But where they would have beat us is going into the wind.
You know she was more difficult to take into the wind and I would have lost her there but with the wind just a little bit behind me nothing could catch her.
That was terrific you know to see all these people in expensive yachts that couldn't catch me.
It was fun at the time you know.